conservation is a bourgeois
concept what we do is we create
a huge amount of carbon and we
expect poor people to look after
our carbon sink for us and they
can't because we haven't got
anything I want to live with
more illegal loggers now I want
to understand their lives more
his bait 080 is very religious
he believes that the rainforest
is the living embodiment of
Christ yet he's cutting it down
so I you know I wanted to know
why a man with such reverence
for the for the forests respect
for it would do that and his
wife left him
we stopped two girls he's
putting through college
neither of them will speak to
him because he's a logger that's
beneath them all his money goes
to send his girls to go through
college
he's now an alcoholic so he's
living this tragic life and
having to do that we got the
worst thing you can buy thought
you know I thought illegal
logging was bad in Manu and Peru
and and then I went to Brazil
this what the Amazon looks like
an actor in western Brazil or
not you want to send ish United
percent of rainforest
destruction in the Amazon is for
agriculture so i went there and
this really was the Badlands
this is my buddy Dino is just
about the most environmentally
destructive human being I've
ever met he truly is the worst
nightmare
even the patent he found his dad
dead and hanged himself when he
was a boy he managed to get
himself a little bit land in the
rainforest had a family managed
to pull it off
got himself farm that's how he
survived this is his
granddaughter Anna Clara yeah
every time we got a camera and a
claro is there
and she was so happy to have
like loading you people to hang
out what and everyone did
everything together and it was a
real family affair but what they
did was this United diabolica
wins group may I google scholar
and saying you have your hip and
with-it this out Fleur yeah
everyone's desperate for me to
like the first numbers need for
no good idea then the full there
you do it
yeah I like with your extra
that credible that simple
yeah
ready to heat coming off that
thing about 50 feet away
everyone's getting the hell out
no he's not he's going to start
the move
yeah
version
ok
you wanna might want to date but
gotta give up
went back the next day I saw the
rainforest light and one of the
reasons what do you know does so
bad was because what you're
doing is you're cutting down a
rainforest which produces oxygen
you're burning it releasing on
the carbon then you're covering
grass and grazing it with cows
and globally count produce more
greenhouse gases and all of the
transport combine that every
plane car ship you name it
globally so it couldn't be any
worse for the environment what
the note does do I like him any
less for it now i have huge
amount of respect for Dino I
learned a lot from him he taught
me happy better dad had a better
family man but he taught me also
that to him the forest is a
resource to me is you know
romantic ideal to him it's the
resource and when we think of
people of the forest we think of
with this romantic notion of
people living in harmony with
the fart you know Dino Erasmus
baito ilyass they're just as
much people of the forest and
until we start understanding
that realizing and accepting it
we're going to struggle to go
forward
the one thing I think I came
away knowing most was that
conservation is a bourgeois
concept you know I have the time
and the money to care and these
guys don't have that and you
know when you look at the
problems of the Amazon what
you're looking at is really four
main things you're looking at
the extraction of gold cocaine
Brazilian beef and tropical
hardwood trees like mahogany and
we're the end users of those
products and what we do is we
create a huge amount of carbon
much more than these guys
you pumped into the atmosphere
and we expect poor people with
nothing to look after our carbon
sink for us
and they can't because we
haven't got anything and when we
shout mon recalling bastards
chopping down the room for us
so what was I going to do with
iliaster that was the big thing
you know at this man I've done
my journey
what am I going to do well I
getting a job I said all right
you're the worst illegal longer
in the air and replanted I'm
trepidatious I'm not stupid
there's a very high chance of
failure but I'm not gonna let
that cloud my excitement about
the whole like their affiliates
working with me and yes it might
fail but I do trust him
as well as paying ilias charlie
is going to bring in experts who
understand how to restore
damaged rain forests rainforest
tenemos una expensive casino 112
sorry too low doses moving a lot
wanna go home
dosis de braslia
they're going to plant a mixture
of hardwoods and fast-growing
soft words
as well as bananas and other
crops can grow alongside the
trees
provide alias with a second
income
with any luck we'll be
self-sufficient within five
years
yeah
I think the thing about this is
so simple in symbolic planting
trees but into one with here
today doing it and you know I'm
doing this with Elias and that's
that's the key to this not
putting trees in the ground that
trees goats who I'm actually
here doing it on asking him to
do it together got more of these
to go and get a whole rainforest
the plant . they're done
anything
charlie didn't find a way to
protect the National Park
but in this corner of the Amazon
is already made a difference
watching Heidi in Des of how
quite brand
yeah
sometimes it hits me
so from a very happy way it was
very nice moment to watch but it
was something really wretched
about it as well
because it's it's not solving a
massive problem it's solving a
very tiny problem and it hasn't
even sold it yet but
I feel like at least I'm doing
something even if it's just one
tiny small thing with this is
all we can do is hope isn't
actually that's bullshit all
within this hope of gal4 asses
and do something two years later
did it were no you have too many
other pressures on his life
I saw him in the summer and use
all embarrassed and I thought
you have been embarrassed huh
I don't live in your shoes I
judge you or you have any blame
at all and it but it was very
sad because he was you know he's
kind of felt like it let himself
down and I didn't I don't know
how hard the asses like this I
couldn't say but they had a new
daughter named jasmine and he
might be but you know the most
awful illegal locker but he's a
nice guy
let's end of my talk
yeah